Exercise5
================

## Complex Contagion

How do we explain madness/wisdom of crowds? Focusing on individuals
inherently gets us ‘stuck in the weeds’ when trying to explain
macro-scale trends. Network analysis allows us to study the connections
of people instead of the people themselves.

This helps to explain certain paradoxes (Majority Illusion), like for eg
when everyone in a given social network believes that everyone else has
more friends than them. This seems possible but is just a consequence of
people only being able to see their own part of the network, not the
whole. The concept of Majority Illusion could also explain things like
group think (eg everyone around me has the same political leanings)

How do we define ‘Contagion’? In this instance, it isn’t necessarily all
negative things like misinformation or madness, it can also be healthy
lifestyles, safety information, etc. Contagion is just something that
can be quickly spread across a connected network.

## Information Spread

Information cascade: spreading of madness or other nefarious information
through a network. The issue with information cascade is its assumption
that exposure to an idea once will gaurantee that the exposed node now
also believes that idea. Instead we define ‘Complex Contagion’: The
relative % of connected nodes to the node of interest will determine
whether or not that node will inherit the idea/belief/contagion. It is
not a simple guaranteed-to-spread model, but takes into account the
presence of an idea throughout a network and the individual
susceptibility of each node.

This works as one might expect generally: having more connections makes
one more susceptible to the spread of contagion, but it also works
conversely: having many connections to people who do not believe a
certain fact can make it impossible for the node to inherit that belief
since the majority of their network does not believe it.

## Social Capitol

Having too many connections can lead to a group think situation wherein
a network that is too closely knit will become impervious to
new/challenging ideas, even if those ideas are correct/vital to safety.
Eg Challenger disaster.

Obviously there is a sweet spot somewhere between too many connections
and too few. The number of connections within a group is defined as that
group’s bonding social capitol. The number of connections between
distinct groups is defined as that network’s bridging social capitol.

Networks which contain the right mixture of bonding and bridging social
capitol are known as ‘small world’ networks due to the ease with which
contagion/wisdom can spread throughout.

## Final definitions

Contagions: In the same way that neurons pass signals to the brain,
people pass beliefs and behaviors in a society.

Connections: Too few or too many make ideas hard to spread. A
‘sweet-spot’ mixture is what allows contagions to spread and manifest in
a network.

## Questions

– How can we use the threshold models to better manage • Prosocial
behavior in organizations • Learning • Toxic or unproductive behaviors

Understanding the network structure of an organization can be very
helpful in tracking the spread of misinformation within it. For the
USPTO for example, we probably expect a high bonding social capitol
within art units, and perhaps a high bridging social capitol within work
groups and tech centres. It may also be the case that there is a
relatively low bridging social capitol between different tech centres
(we observed as such during previous exercises when visualizing networks
containing work groups from different tech centres - not many
connections between examiners in different centres). This may not
normally be an issue, but for example if we are finding that a new
company policy isn’t being picked up across the entire organization, we
could find out which tech centres are resistant to the idea and try to
increase their bridging with the more compliant tech centres.
